---
title: 'The transit from student`s life to work (only) life'
date: 2019-11-28
permalink: /posts/2019/11/transit/
tags:
  - student
  - work-life-balance
  - wakeupcall
---

This blog post describes my life as a student and compares this to the life outside campus after finishing my graduation.

First things first
======
Once I finished my High-School, being the best student of the class at the age of 17, I was unsure about what my life would be holding for me. Since my dream of becoming a pilot was not possible (since I am a Diabetic), I knew I was up to study in a university. As I was living in Brazil, you have to pass an entracne exam called "vestibular" which can be described as an randomized test for each university you apply for with a score board. The latter tells you, which degrees fit you regardiin gyour test's results. 

In order to prepare for it, I opted to attend a preparatorive course aka "Coursinho" which prepares you for the test. Since this is known for its own fees, I had to work (as I have already been doing as a language teacher) and increasing my work load in order to pay my bills. After a couple of vestibulares, from which I passed some, and som epersonal issues, I decided to get back to Germany and attend university there. Even though I am native, the German univeristy system is different such that it requires you to have a German (or accepted high school degree) which is then used to decide which courses you are allowed to take, based on the final grade. As the Brazilian degree was not accepted, I had to retake this in Studienkolleg, after which I was finally able to study in the fields of "Economics" in the fall 2014.

University
======
As you may have noticed, I might not be a "regular" student: I had to always work apart from my education and thus was not able to enjoy (all of the) freedom the cliché student has. Nonetheless, student's life was great:

* Apart from my working time, I was able to decide wheter or not I wanted to go to university or not
* We had the libberty of decidin which courses to take or not
* I have gotten the possibility to augment my understanding of many political and/or economical decisions
* I got to know a lot of cool people, including my girlfriend (and waifu to be)

During this time, we were not only meant to study for exams we had to wirte term papers as well, which was not alwys easy-going, yet it tought every single on eof us how to work independently and in groups, whilst programing in different languages (LATEX, R) and presenting our results not only for colleagues, buut also for consulting companies as KPMG.

Whilst others could enjoy their free time, I was engaged to my job as the deputy movie director of the twn I was living in. This means that my days were not only long (working until midnight was considered leaving early) but also that my weekends were packed with nore work. Even though law sees students in working only 20h/week, it was tough for me to maintain this working time. One could not say, when the work day was over, since any customer had to be served and eventually presented a movie. 

Work-life
------
