---
title: 'Space X - History in the making'
date: 2018-10-13
permalink: /posts/2018/10/spacex/
tags:
  - spacex
  - elonmusk 
  - opinion
---

A small recap on the history and the making of Elon Musk`s space exploration program and the reason to why it is one of the most exciting companies of the decade to come. This Blog post is laso suitable for all those, who did not follow the company in the early days and is entering the hype train right now. 

Space X - Some History
======
Founded by the utter most conflicting personality of the last decade, Elon Musk, Space X. The companies foundation goes back to 2002 and was one of the first of its kind: a privately owned space program. Its goal: Developping technologies in such a manner, that traveling space would become more affordable. 

Keeping in mind that the space shuttle program was to end, the supply would be diminished by 50%. Further, the founder's goal is to one day be able to colonialize Mars, a planet yet to reached by human beings, bearin gin mind the extreme costs that the current space programmes around the globe would imply. Mainly for the latter reason, Space X focus lied on increasing cost-effieciency by iinvesting in the development of reusable rockets. During an interview, Elon Musk referred to it being as commercial flight in the actual days: Sending a rocket to space, delivering its cargo or passengers, returning to earth and after a short turnaround being able to shoot to space once more. 

After a lot of failed attemps to gain acess to old (ballistic) rockets (from Russia) in order to use them to build some kind of fundamental knowledge he realized that regarding the price for such a rocket was  rocket only 3% were actually production cost. Further, the underlying science remained roughly the same through the last decades. Bearing this in mind, instead of using old technologies he ahd to be reiventing the wheel using improved technologies and ideas. 

Since the risk was fairly high he invested his own money without funding, such that the main goal at hand was to initially get a rocket working on the lowest amount of money possible. For that, every part used in the rocket would actually be built in the headquarters which has always been a great cost factor yet the resulting logistical difficulties were low. For this and other purposes, his aim was to build a team of young and innovative persons who would be willing "...give up their social life...". Those in return, were able to launch the first to "Falcon" rocket in 2006, yet facing flying difficulties (the rocket exploeded mid-air) and many production problems. 

The following two attemps of launches had their destiny already written with the start of the first "Falcon 1". Now, whilst facing problems on his personal life and his other company (Tesla), Elon Musk was facing the last attempt of saving SpaceX with his fourth launch of "Falcon 1" which was sucessful and turned out to be the first privately financied and produced rocket to go into and even orbit around Earth.

Even though his product was working just fine, money was running out (crisis of 2008) and in order to maintain the company, Elon reached out to several institution from which one gave him a positive response (and money): NASA. By this, SpaceX had been awarded $1.7 billion in order to assure the supply of the International Space Station (ISS).

100-250 million after rocket purchase
57 million rocket and 200k after purchase
1100dollar/kg achievable

2008 first privately funded liquid propelled rocket 
2010 launch orbit and recover spacecraft
2010 first private to ISS
2013 first satellite
2015 ffirst booster return
2016 first booster return asd

global telecommunications network
grasshopper in 2013: low attitude, vertical takeoff and landing

What makes SpaceX be this sucessfull?
======
The development of the Falcon launch vehicle family (and the Dragon spacecraft) 
Vertical integration
85% produced in -house (hardware)
Modular approoach from software engineering

Elon Musk sees not only himself, but human kind as "...multi-planet species..."

What next?
------
The initial idea Musk proposed back in 2001 was to start building miniature greenhouse on Mars in order to grow plants, as taken as an inspiration in the movie "The marsian", starring Matt Damon. Elon himself can be quoted with the phrase: "Thie woud be the furthest that life has ever traveled.". That being said, the Mars mission is estimated to start in 2024. During this mission the main goal is to be seeking watersources in order to provide life on the red planet. As Elon said in an interview early in 2016, he would like to die on Mars."



