---
title: 'Space X - Crew Dragon Demo 2'
date: 2020-05-30
permalink: /posts/2020/05/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - spacex
  - iss 
  - opinion
---

My opinion about Space X and the reason we should seek the world wide space.

Space X - Some background
======
Founded by the utter most conflicting personality of the last decade, Elon Musk, Space X. The companies foundation goes back to 2002 and was one of the first of its kind: a privately owned space program. Its goal: Developping technologies in such a manner, that traveling space would become more affordable. 

Keeping in mind that the space shuttle program was to end, the supply would be diminished by 50%. Further, the founder's goal is to one day be able to colonialize Mars, a planet yet to reached by human beings, bearin gin mind the extreme costs that the current space programmes around the globe would imply. Mainly for the latter reason, Space X focus lied on increasing cost-effieciency by iinvesting in the development of reusable rockets. During an interview, Elon Musk referred to it being as commercial flight in the actual days: Sending a rocket to space, delivering its cargo or passengers, returning to earth and after a short turnaround being able to shoot to space once more. 

After a lot of failed attemps to gain acess to old rockets in order to use them to build some kind of fundamental knowledge he realized, rocket science remained roughly the same throught the last decades. Bearing this in mind, instead of using old technologies he ahd to be reiventing the wheel using improved technologies and ides. 

Since the risk was fairly high he invested his own money without funding, such that the main goal at hand was to initially get a rocket working on the lowest amount of money possible. For that, every part used in the rocket would actually be built in the headquarters which has always been a great cost factor yet the resulting logistical difficulties were low.

100-250 million after rocket purchase
57 million rocket and 200k after purchase

2008 first privately funded liquid propelled rocket 
2010 launch orbit and recover spacecraft
2010 first private to ISS
2013 first satellite
2015 ffirst booster return







So, is it really necessary to go to space?
======
Elon Musk sees not only himself, but human kind as "...multi-planet species..."

Aren't headings cool?
------
